hello everyone welcome to another CSS
tutorial in this video we're going to be
covering CSS shadows now there are two
types of shadows we'll be dealing with
today text shadow so we'll apply a
shadow to this heading and the second is
box shadow which we will apply to this
white container element so let's dive
right in let's head over to our CSS file
we're going to create a new rule to
target our heading level one and the
property is simply text shadow now we're
going to string together a few values
here to define the appearance in the
positioning of the shadow so the first
value controls the horizontal
positioning or offset of the shadow so
let's say we want it to sit three pixels
to the right of the text the next value
is the vertical offset so where do we
want the shadow to sit in relation to
the text vertically so we'll just go
ahead with zero the third value is the
blur of the shadow so if we enter zero
it'll be a very sharp shadow it'll be as
as sharp as the text itself if we enter
a larger value here the text will be
blurred and finally the fourth value is
the color of the shadow so I will just
pick a gray now if you refresh we can
see that a shadow is applied now let's
just go ahead and tweak the values
really quickly so you can get a good
idea of how the different values work so
again if we change this from zero to
three the second value is the vertical
offset so if we refresh you see that
it's now pushed down three pixels
finally if we edit this third value
change this to three we see that instead
of the shadow being sharp it is now
blurred now a common question is okay so
I can place the shadow to the bottom or
the right of the original text what if I
want to place the shadow above or to the
left of the original text well it's
pretty simple you can just make these
values negative so if we go negative
three pixel horizontal negative three
pixel vertical if we refresh see the
shadows now to the upper
of the text now that's really all there
is to the CSS text shadow property it's
a fairly simple property let's move on
to the Box shadow property so we're
going to add a shadow to our white
container so let's head over to our CSS
file and create the shadow this is the
CSS rule for our container element we're
going to create a new declaration box
shadow will go five pixels horizontal
and vertically and a five pixel blur and
for the color we'll give it the same
value as the elements border now if we
refresh we can see that the shadow was
applied I think it looks a bit off
though I think it would look better if
the shadow was a bit more transparent so
if it was a little bit lighter than the
border now there are a few ways we can
adjust the color we could go into
Photoshop or a color picker like this
and just choose a color that we like or
we can use the existing color that we
already have and just lower it to
transparency so this is a good way to
segue into the final topic before we
close out this video of RGB a color
values they allow you to apply
transparency to colors so the RGB a
stands for red green blue and the a on
the end of RGB a I would assume stands
for alpha transparency but enough with
the rambling first we need to find the
RGB value of this border color that we
were using I'll head over to this online
color picker and paste in the value and
it gives us the RGB value so the R is
128 170 and the blue is 183 so in our
style sheet we're going to erase this
hexadecimal color RGB a parenthesis and
now we're going to simply add the red
green blue values so let's see it was
128 170 183
now if we refresh our page we see that
there is no change in the shadow this is
because our final value one controls the
transparency of the opacity so if I put
0.5 the shadow is only going to be as
half as strong as it was before so if
your refresh we see that it's a very
subtle shadow now and I think this looks
a lot better and if you're not happy
with it it's very easy to adjust so we
can always just go in and bump it from 5
to point 7 if we refresh we see the
shadow gets darker so it really gives
you fine-grained control over your
colors and it especially is great when
you want to apply a black shadow and in
the past before rgba you would have to
sort of take the base color and then
find a bit darker color and match it but
if you had varying backgrounds it just
resulted in a lot of work so rgba is
great and one final thing before we
close out this video is browser
compatibility so rgba is not going to
work in older browsers and perhaps even
more relevant CSS shadows are not going
to work in older browsers but it's ok
because they're not exactly vital to the
layout however there are a few lines of
code we can add to our stylesheet to
ensure that shadows work and the
greatest percentage of browsers possible
so I have an outdated version of Safari
here and as we can see the text shadow
is working but the box shadow is not now
Safari is a is a very modern browser but
I'm running behind in my update
so in our stylesheet there's something
we can do to help users see the shadows
if they're not running the utmost
updated browser so in our box shadow if
we simply copy this line and add a
prefix to the property WebKit box shadow
now if we refresh in Safari we can see
that there is a shadow and it's the same
thing Google Chrome if we have our
Google Chrome it uses the WebKit engine
so it's the same thing if someone has an
older version of Chrome this will allow
them to see text shadows
also with Firefox now we were able to
see the shadow in Firefox right off the
bat because this is the the cutting-edge
version of Firefox and it is added text
shadows to its rendering engine but if
this was an older version of Firefox or
if you think a large percentage of your
audience might have an older version of
Firefox we can do the same thing so we
can just take the property duplicate it
and add a prefix of Mohs and that would
cover all of your bases
so to recap we've added text shadows box
shadows we learned the basics of rgba
you have the red value green value the
blue value and then your transparency
value so hope you feel like you learned
something and that concludes this video
thanks for watching bye